README.md, before:

# Enceladus

### <a name="build_status"/>Build Status
| master | develop |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| [![Build Status](https://opensource.bigusdatus.com/jenkins/buildStatus/icon?job=Absa-OSS-Projects%2Fenceladus%2Fmaster)](https://opensource.bigusdatus.com/jenkins/job/Absa-OSS-Projects/job/enceladus/job/master/) | [![Build Status](https://opensource.bigusdatus.com/jenkins/buildStatus/icon?job=Absa-OSS-Projects%2Fenceladus%2Fdevelop)](https://opensource.bigusdatus.com/jenkins/job/Absa-OSS-Projects/job/enceladus/job/develop/) |
### <a name="code_quality_status"/>Code Quality Status
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=AbsaOSS_enceladus&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=AbsaOSS_enceladus)

___

<!-- toc -->
- [What is Enceladus?](#what-is-enceladus)
    - [Menas](#menas)
    - [Standardization](#standardization)
    - [Conformance](#conformance)
- [How to build](#how-to-build)
- [How to run](#how-to-run)
- [How to contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
<!-- tocstop -->

## What is Enceladus?
**Enceladus** is a **Dynamic Conformance Engine** which allows data from different formats to be standardized to parquet and conformed to group-accepted common reference (e.g. data for country designation which are **DE** in one source system and **Deutschland** in another, can be conformed to **Germany**).

The project is comprised of three main components:
### Menas
This is the user-facing web client, used to **specify the standardization schema**, and **define the steps required to conform** a dataset.  
There are three models used to do this:
 - **Dataset**: Specifies where the dataset will be read from on HDFS (**RAW**), the conformance rules that will be applied to it, and where it will land on HDFS once it is conformed (**PUBLISH**)
 - **Schema**: Specifies the schema towards which the dataset will be standardized
 - **Mapping Table**: Specifies where tables with master reference data can be found (parquet on HDFS), which are used when applying Mapping conformance rules (e.g. the dataset uses **Germany**, which maps to the master reference **DE** in the mapping table)

### Standardization
This is a Spark job which reads an input dataset in any of the supported formats and **produces a parquet dataset with the Menas-specified schema** as output. 

### Conformance
This is a Spark job which **applies the Menas-specified conformance rules to the standardized dataset**.

## How to build
#### Build requirements:
 - **Maven 3.5.4+**
 - **Java 8**

Each module provides configuration file templates with reasonable default values.
Make a copy of the `*.properties.template` and `*.conf.template` files in each module's `src/resources` directory removing the `.template` extension. 
Ensure the properties there fit your environment.

#### Build commands:

- Without tests: `mvn clean package -DskipTests `
- With unit tests: `mvn clean package`
- With integration tests: `mvn clean package -Pintegration`
- With component preload file generated: `mvn clean package -PgenerateComponentPreload`

#### Test coverage:
- Test coverage: `mvn scoverage:report`

The coverage reports are written in each module's `target` directory and aggregated in the root `target` directory.

## How to run
#### Menas requirements:
- [**Tomcat 8.5/9.0** installation](https://tomcat.apache.org/download-90.cgi)
- [**MongoDB 4.0** installation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/)
- [**Spline UI deployment**](https://absaoss.github.io/spline/) - place the [spline.war](https://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=za/co/absa/spline/spline-web/0.3.9/spline-web-0.3.9.war)
 in your Tomcat webapps directory (rename after downloading to _spline.war_); NB! don't forget to set up the `spline.mongodb.url` configuration for the _war_
- **HADOOP_CONF_DIR** environment variable, pointing to the location of your hadoop configuration (pointing to a hadoop installation)

The _Spline UI_ can be omitted; in such case the **Menas** `spline.urlTemplate` setting should be set to empty string. 

#### Deploying Menas
Simply copy the **menas.war** file produced when building the project into Tomcat's webapps directory. 

#### Speed up initial loading time of menas
- Build the project with the generateComponentPreload profile. Component preload will greatly reduce the number of HTTP requests required for the initial load of Menas
- Enable the HTTP compression
- Configure `spring.resources.cache.cachecontrol.max-age` in `application.properties` of Menas for caching of static resources

#### Standardization and Conformance requirements:
- [**Spark 2.4.4 (Scala 2.11)** installation](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)
- [**Hadoop 2.7** installation](https://hadoop.apache.org/releases.html)
- **Menas** running instance
- **Menas Credentials File** in your home directory or on HDFS (a configuration file for authenticating the Spark jobs with Menas) 
   - **Use with in-memory authentication**
e.g. `~/menas-credential.properties`:
```
username=user
password=changeme
```
- **Menas Keytab File** in your home directory or on HDFS
   - **Use with kerberos authentication**, see [link](https://kb.iu.edu/d/aumh) for details on creating keytab files
 - **Directory structure** for the **RAW** dataset should follow the convention of `<path_to_dataset_in_menas>/<year>/<month>/<day>/v<dataset_version>`. This date is specified with the `--report-date` option when running the **Standardization** and **Conformance** jobs.
 - **_INFO file** must be present along with the **RAW** data on HDFS as per the above directory structure. This is a file tracking control measures via [Atum](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/atum), an example can be found [here](examples/data/input/_INFO).

#### Running Standardization
```
<spark home>/spark-submit \
--num-executors <num> \
--executor-memory <num>G \
--master yarn \
--deploy-mode <client/cluster> \
--driver-cores <num> \
--driver-memory <num>G \
--conf "spark.driver.extraJavaOptions=-Dmenas.rest.uri=<menas_api_uri:port> -Dstandardized.hdfs.path=<path_for_standardized_output>-{0}-{1}-{2}-{3} -Dspline.mongodb.url=<mongo_url_for_spline> -Dspline.mongodb.name=<spline_database_name> -Dhdp.version=<hadoop_version>" \
--class za.co.absa.enceladus.standardization.StandardizationJob \
<spark-jobs_<build_version>.jar> \
--menas-auth-keytab <path_to_keytab_file> \
--dataset-name <dataset_name> \
--dataset-version <dataset_version> \
--report-date <date> \
--report-version <data_run_version> \
--raw-format <data_format> \
--row-tag <tag>
```
* Here `row-tag` is a specific option for `raw-format` of type `XML`. For more options for different types please see our WIKI.
* In case Menas is configured for in-memory authentication (e.g. in dev environments), replace `--menas-auth-keytab` with `--menas-credentials-file`

#### Running Conformance
```
<spark home>/spark-submit \
--num-executors <num> \
--executor-memory <num>G \
--master yarn \
--deploy-mode <client/cluster> \
--driver-cores <num> \
--driver-memory <num>G \
--conf 'spark.ui.port=29000' \
--conf "spark.driver.extraJavaOptions=-Dmenas.rest.uri=<menas_api_uri:port> -Dstandardized.hdfs.path=<path_of_standardized_input>-{0}-{1}-{2}-{3} -Dconformance.mappingtable.pattern=reportDate={0}-{1}-{2} -Dspline.mongodb.url=<mongo_url_for_spline> -Dspline.mongodb.name=<spline_database_name>" -Dhdp.version=<hadoop_version> \
--packages za.co.absa:enceladus-parent:<version>,za.co.absa:enceladus-conformance:<version> \
--class za.co.absa.enceladus.conformance.DynamicConformanceJob \
<spark-jobs_<build_version>.jar> \
--menas-auth-keytab <path_to_keytab_file> \
--dataset-name <dataset_name> \
--dataset-version <dataset_version> \
--report-date <date> \
--report-version <data_run_version>
```
* In case Menas is configured for in-memory authentication (e.g. in dev environments), replace `--menas-auth-keytab` with `--menas-credentials-file`

#### Helper scripts for running Standardization and Conformance

The Scripts in `scripts` folder can be used to simplify command lines for running Standardization and Conformance jobs.

Steps to configure the scripts are as follows:
* Copy all the scripts in `scripts` directory to a location in your environment.
* Copy `enceladus_env.template.sh` to `enceladus_env.sh`.
* Change `enceladus_env.sh` according to your environment settings.
* Use `run_standardization.sh` and `run_conformance.sh` scripts instead of directly invoking `spark-submit` to run your jobs.

The syntax for running Standardization and Conformance is similar to running them using `spark-submit`. The only difference is that
you don't have to provide environment-specific settings. Several resource options, like driver memory and driver cores also have
default values and can be omitted. The number of executors is still a mandatory parameter.

The basic command to run Standardization becomes:
```
<path to scripts>/run_standardization.sh \
--num-executors <num> \
--deploy-mode <client/cluster> \
--menas-auth-keytab <path_to_keytab_file> \
--dataset-name <dataset_name> \
--dataset-version <dataset_version> \
--report-date <date> \
--report-version <data_run_version> \
--raw-format <data_format> \
--row-tag <tag>
```

The basic command to run Conformance becomes:
```
<path to scripts>/run_conformance.sh \
--num-executors <num> \
--deploy-mode <client/cluster> \
--menas-auth-keytab <path_to_keytab_file> \
--dataset-name <dataset_name> \
--dataset-version <dataset_version> \
--report-date <date> \
--report-version <data_run_version>
```

The list of options for configuring Spark deployment mode in Yarn and resource specification:

|            Option                            |                           Description                                                                       |
|----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --deploy-mode **cluster/client**             | Specifies a Spark Application deployment mode when Spark runs on Yarn. Can be either `client` or `cluster`. |
| --num-executors **n**                        | Specifies the number of executors to use. |
| --executor-memory **mem**                    | Specifies an amount of memory to request for each executor. See memory specification syntax in Spark. Examples: `4g`, `8g`. |
| --executor-cores **mem**                     | Specifies a number of cores to request for each executor (default=1). |
| --driver-cores **n**                         | Specifies a number of CPU cores to allocate for the driver process. |
| --driver-memory **mem**                      | Specifies an amount of memory to request for the driver process. See memory specification syntax in Spark. Examples: `4g`, `8g`. |
| --persist-storage-level **level**            | **Advanced** Specifies the storage level to use for persisting intermediate results. Can be one of `NONE`, `DISK_ONLY`, `MEMORY_ONLY`, `MEMORY_ONLY_SER`, `MEMORY_AND_DISK` (default), `MEMORY_AND_DISK_SER`, etc. See more [here](https://spark.apache.org/docs/2.4.4/api/java/index.html?org/apache/spark/storage/StorageLevel.html). |
| --conf-spark-executor-memoryOverhead **mem** | **Advanced**. The amount of off-heap memory to be allocated per executor, in MiB unless otherwise specified. Sets `spark.executor.memoryOverhead` Spark configuration parameter. See the detailed description [here](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html#available-properties). See memory specification syntax in Spark. Examples: `4g`, `8g`. |
| --conf-spark-memory-fraction **value**       | **Advanced**. Fraction of (heap space - 300MB) used for execution and storage (default=`0.6`). Sets `spark.memory.fraction` Spark configuration parameter. See the detailed description [here](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html#memory-management). |


For more information on these options see the official documentation on running Spark on Yarn: 
[https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-yarn.html](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-yarn.html)

The list of all options for running both Standardization and Conformance:

|            Option                     |                           Description                                                                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --menas-auth-keytab **filename**      | A keytab file used for Kerberized authentication to Menas. Cannot be used together with `--menas-credentials-file`.                                                                         |
| --menas-credentials-file **filename** | A credentials file containing a login and a password used to authenticate to Menas. Cannot be used together with `--menas-auth-keytab`.                                                     |
| --dataset-name **name**               | A dataset name to be standardized or conformed.                                                                                                                                             |
| --dataset-version **version**         | A version of a dataset to be standardized or conformed.                                                                                                                                     |
| --report-date **YYYY-mm-dd**          | A date specifying a day for which a raw data is landed.                                                                                                                                     |
| --report-version **version**          | A version of the data for a particular day.                                                                                                                                                 |
| --std-hdfs-path **path**              | A path pattern where to put standardized data. The following tokens are expending in the pattern: `{0}` - dataset name, `{1}` - dataset version, `{2}`- report date, `{3}`- report version. |

The list of additional options available for running Standardization:

|            Option             |                           Description                                                                                           |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --raw-format **format**       | A format for input data. Can be one of `parquet`, `json`, `csv`, `xml`, `cobol`, `fixed-width`.                                 |
| --charset **charset**         | Specifies a charset to use for `csv`, `json` or `xml`. Default is `UTF-8`.                                                      |
| --row-tag **tag**             | A row tag if the input format is `xml`.                                                                                         |
| --header **true/false**       | Indicates if in the input CSV data has headers as the first row of each file.                                                   |
| --delimiter **character**     | Specifies a delimiter character to use for CSV format. By default `,` is used.                                                  |
| --csv-quote **character**     | Specifies a character to be used as a quote for creating fields that might contain delimiter character. By default `"` is used. |
| --csv-escape **character**    | Specifies a character to be used for escaping other characters. By default '&#92;' (backslash) is used.                         |
| --trimValues **true/false**   | Indicates if string fields of fixed with text data should be trimmed.                                                           |
| --is-xcom **true/false**      | If `true` a mainframe input file is expected to have XCOM RDW headers.                                                          |
| --folder-prefix **prefix**    | Adds a folder prefix before the date tokens.                                                                                    |
| --debug-set-raw-path **path** | Override the path of the raw data (used for testing purposes).                                                                  |

The list of additional options available for running Conformance:

|            Option                          |                           Description                                        |
|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --mapping-table-pattern **pattern**        | A pattern to look for mapping table for the specified date.<br>The list of possible substitutions: `{0}` - year, `{1}` - month, `{2}` - day of month. By default the pattern is `reportDate={0}-{1}-{2}`. Special symbols in the pattern need to be escaped. For example, an empty pattern can be be specified as `\'\'` (single quotes are escaped using a backslash character).|
| --experimental-mapping-rule **true/false** | If `true`, the experimental optimized mapping rule implementation is used. The default value is build-specific and is set in 'application.properties'. |
| --catalyst-workaround **true/false**       | Turns on (`true`) or off (`false`) workaround for Catalyst optimizer issue. It is `true` by default. Turn this off only is you encounter timing freeze issues when running Conformance. | 
| --autoclean-std-folder **true/false**      | If `true`, the standardized folder will be cleaned automatically after successful execution of a Conformance job. |

## How to contribute
Please see our [**Contribution Guidelines**](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Documentation
Please see the [documentation pages](https://absaoss.github.io/enceladus/).

Commit message:

Push control info measurements to a Kafka topic. (#1208, #1197)
* Handle the case when a plugin factory returns null.
* Make the implementation of the Kafka Info plugin a built-in one.
* Make client id and topic name specific for the plugin.
* This is since we can have other plugins that use Kafka and they
  can reuse Kafka connection endpoints while having their own
  client id and topic name.
* Add support for SASL_SSL (Thanks @TarannumPraveen)
* Add unit tests for the Control Info Kafka plugin.
* Add more ScalaDoc around new classes and methods.
* Add plugins description to README
* Ensure Kafka producer is flushed and closed properly before job exits.
* Shortened README.md entry on plugins (#1215)
* Be more protective when invoking 'plugin.close()'.

Co-authored-by: David Benedeki <14905969+benedeki@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Saša Zejnilović <zejnils@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Tarannum Praveen <tarannum.praveen@absa.africa>

README.md, after:

# Enceladus

### <a name="build_status"/>Build Status
| master | develop |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| [![Build Status](https://opensource.bigusdatus.com/jenkins/buildStatus/icon?job=Absa-OSS-Projects%2Fenceladus%2Fmaster)](https://opensource.bigusdatus.com/jenkins/job/Absa-OSS-Projects/job/enceladus/job/master/) | [![Build Status](https://opensource.bigusdatus.com/jenkins/buildStatus/icon?job=Absa-OSS-Projects%2Fenceladus%2Fdevelop)](https://opensource.bigusdatus.com/jenkins/job/Absa-OSS-Projects/job/enceladus/job/develop/) |
### <a name="code_quality_status"/>Code Quality Status
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=AbsaOSS_enceladus&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=AbsaOSS_enceladus)

___

<!-- toc -->
- [What is Enceladus?](#what-is-enceladus)
    - [Menas](#menas)
    - [Standardization](#standardization)
    - [Conformance](#conformance)
- [How to build](#how-to-build)
- [How to run](#how-to-run)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
    - [Built-in Plugins](#built-in-plugins)
- [How to contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
<!-- tocstop -->

## What is Enceladus?
**Enceladus** is a **Dynamic Conformance Engine** which allows data from different formats to be standardized to parquet and conformed to group-accepted common reference (e.g. data for country designation which are **DE** in one source system and **Deutschland** in another, can be conformed to **Germany**).

The project is comprised of three main components:
### Menas
This is the user-facing web client, used to **specify the standardization schema**, and **define the steps required to conform** a dataset.  
There are three models used to do this:
 - **Dataset**: Specifies where the dataset will be read from on HDFS (**RAW**), the conformance rules that will be applied to it, and where it will land on HDFS once it is conformed (**PUBLISH**)
 - **Schema**: Specifies the schema towards which the dataset will be standardized
 - **Mapping Table**: Specifies where tables with master reference data can be found (parquet on HDFS), which are used when applying Mapping conformance rules (e.g. the dataset uses **Germany**, which maps to the master reference **DE** in the mapping table)

### Standardization
This is a Spark job which reads an input dataset in any of the supported formats and **produces a parquet dataset with the Menas-specified schema** as output. 

### Conformance
This is a Spark job which **applies the Menas-specified conformance rules to the standardized dataset**.

## How to build
#### Build requirements:
 - **Maven 3.5.4+**
 - **Java 8**

Each module provides configuration file templates with reasonable default values.
Make a copy of the `*.properties.template` and `*.conf.template` files in each module's `src/resources` directory removing the `.template` extension. 
Ensure the properties there fit your environment.

#### Build commands:

- Without tests: `mvn clean package -DskipTests `
- With unit tests: `mvn clean package`
- With integration tests: `mvn clean package -Pintegration`
- With component preload file generated: `mvn clean package -PgenerateComponentPreload`

#### Test coverage:
- Test coverage: `mvn scoverage:report`

The coverage reports are written in each module's `target` directory and aggregated in the root `target` directory.

## How to run
#### Menas requirements:
- [**Tomcat 8.5/9.0** installation](https://tomcat.apache.org/download-90.cgi)
- [**MongoDB 4.0** installation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/)
- [**Spline UI deployment**](https://absaoss.github.io/spline/) - place the [spline.war](https://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=za/co/absa/spline/spline-web/0.3.9/spline-web-0.3.9.war)
 in your Tomcat webapps directory (rename after downloading to _spline.war_); NB! don't forget to set up the `spline.mongodb.url` configuration for the _war_
- **HADOOP_CONF_DIR** environment variable, pointing to the location of your hadoop configuration (pointing to a hadoop installation)

The _Spline UI_ can be omitted; in such case the **Menas** `spline.urlTemplate` setting should be set to empty string. 

#### Deploying Menas
Simply copy the **menas.war** file produced when building the project into Tomcat's webapps directory. 

#### Speed up initial loading time of menas
- Build the project with the generateComponentPreload profile. Component preload will greatly reduce the number of HTTP requests required for the initial load of Menas
- Enable the HTTP compression
- Configure `spring.resources.cache.cachecontrol.max-age` in `application.properties` of Menas for caching of static resources

#### Standardization and Conformance requirements:
- [**Spark 2.4.4 (Scala 2.11)** installation](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)
- [**Hadoop 2.7** installation](https://hadoop.apache.org/releases.html)
- **Menas** running instance
- **Menas Credentials File** in your home directory or on HDFS (a configuration file for authenticating the Spark jobs with Menas) 
   - **Use with in-memory authentication**
e.g. `~/menas-credential.properties`:
```
username=user
password=changeme
```
- **Menas Keytab File** in your home directory or on HDFS
   - **Use with kerberos authentication**, see [link](https://kb.iu.edu/d/aumh) for details on creating keytab files
 - **Directory structure** for the **RAW** dataset should follow the convention of `<path_to_dataset_in_menas>/<year>/<month>/<day>/v<dataset_version>`. This date is specified with the `--report-date` option when running the **Standardization** and **Conformance** jobs.
 - **_INFO file** must be present along with the **RAW** data on HDFS as per the above directory structure. This is a file tracking control measures via [Atum](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/atum), an example can be found [here](examples/data/input/_INFO).

#### Running Standardization
```
<spark home>/spark-submit \
--num-executors <num> \
--executor-memory <num>G \
--master yarn \
--deploy-mode <client/cluster> \
--driver-cores <num> \
--driver-memory <num>G \
--conf "spark.driver.extraJavaOptions=-Dmenas.rest.uri=<menas_api_uri:port> -Dstandardized.hdfs.path=<path_for_standardized_output>-{0}-{1}-{2}-{3} -Dspline.mongodb.url=<mongo_url_for_spline> -Dspline.mongodb.name=<spline_database_name> -Dhdp.version=<hadoop_version>" \
--class za.co.absa.enceladus.standardization.StandardizationJob \
<spark-jobs_<build_version>.jar> \
--menas-auth-keytab <path_to_keytab_file> \
--dataset-name <dataset_name> \
--dataset-version <dataset_version> \
--report-date <date> \
--report-version <data_run_version> \
--raw-format <data_format> \
--row-tag <tag>
```
* Here `row-tag` is a specific option for `raw-format` of type `XML`. For more options for different types please see our WIKI.
* In case Menas is configured for in-memory authentication (e.g. in dev environments), replace `--menas-auth-keytab` with `--menas-credentials-file`

#### Running Conformance
```
<spark home>/spark-submit \
--num-executors <num> \
--executor-memory <num>G \
--master yarn \
--deploy-mode <client/cluster> \
--driver-cores <num> \
--driver-memory <num>G \
--conf 'spark.ui.port=29000' \
--conf "spark.driver.extraJavaOptions=-Dmenas.rest.uri=<menas_api_uri:port> -Dstandardized.hdfs.path=<path_of_standardized_input>-{0}-{1}-{2}-{3} -Dconformance.mappingtable.pattern=reportDate={0}-{1}-{2} -Dspline.mongodb.url=<mongo_url_for_spline> -Dspline.mongodb.name=<spline_database_name>" -Dhdp.version=<hadoop_version> \
--packages za.co.absa:enceladus-parent:<version>,za.co.absa:enceladus-conformance:<version> \
--class za.co.absa.enceladus.conformance.DynamicConformanceJob \
<spark-jobs_<build_version>.jar> \
--menas-auth-keytab <path_to_keytab_file> \
--dataset-name <dataset_name> \
--dataset-version <dataset_version> \
--report-date <date> \
--report-version <data_run_version>
```
* In case Menas is configured for in-memory authentication (e.g. in dev environments), replace `--menas-auth-keytab` with `--menas-credentials-file`

#### Helper scripts for running Standardization and Conformance

The Scripts in `scripts` folder can be used to simplify command lines for running Standardization and Conformance jobs.

Steps to configure the scripts are as follows:
* Copy all the scripts in `scripts` directory to a location in your environment.
* Copy `enceladus_env.template.sh` to `enceladus_env.sh`.
* Change `enceladus_env.sh` according to your environment settings.
* Use `run_standardization.sh` and `run_conformance.sh` scripts instead of directly invoking `spark-submit` to run your jobs.

The syntax for running Standardization and Conformance is similar to running them using `spark-submit`. The only difference is that
you don't have to provide environment-specific settings. Several resource options, like driver memory and driver cores also have
default values and can be omitted. The number of executors is still a mandatory parameter.

The basic command to run Standardization becomes:
```
<path to scripts>/run_standardization.sh \
--num-executors <num> \
--deploy-mode <client/cluster> \
--menas-auth-keytab <path_to_keytab_file> \
--dataset-name <dataset_name> \
--dataset-version <dataset_version> \
--report-date <date> \
--report-version <data_run_version> \
--raw-format <data_format> \
--row-tag <tag>
```

The basic command to run Conformance becomes:
```
<path to scripts>/run_conformance.sh \
--num-executors <num> \
--deploy-mode <client/cluster> \
--menas-auth-keytab <path_to_keytab_file> \
--dataset-name <dataset_name> \
--dataset-version <dataset_version> \
--report-date <date> \
--report-version <data_run_version>
```

The list of options for configuring Spark deployment mode in Yarn and resource specification:

|            Option                            |                           Description                                                                       |
|----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --deploy-mode **cluster/client**             | Specifies a Spark Application deployment mode when Spark runs on Yarn. Can be either `client` or `cluster`. |
| --num-executors **n**                        | Specifies the number of executors to use. |
| --executor-memory **mem**                    | Specifies an amount of memory to request for each executor. See memory specification syntax in Spark. Examples: `4g`, `8g`. |
| --executor-cores **mem**                     | Specifies a number of cores to request for each executor (default=1). |
| --driver-cores **n**                         | Specifies a number of CPU cores to allocate for the driver process. |
| --driver-memory **mem**                      | Specifies an amount of memory to request for the driver process. See memory specification syntax in Spark. Examples: `4g`, `8g`. |
| --persist-storage-level **level**            | **Advanced** Specifies the storage level to use for persisting intermediate results. Can be one of `NONE`, `DISK_ONLY`, `MEMORY_ONLY`, `MEMORY_ONLY_SER`, `MEMORY_AND_DISK` (default), `MEMORY_AND_DISK_SER`, etc. See more [here](https://spark.apache.org/docs/2.4.4/api/java/index.html?org/apache/spark/storage/StorageLevel.html). |
| --conf-spark-executor-memoryOverhead **mem** | **Advanced**. The amount of off-heap memory to be allocated per executor, in MiB unless otherwise specified. Sets `spark.executor.memoryOverhead` Spark configuration parameter. See the detailed description [here](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html#available-properties). See memory specification syntax in Spark. Examples: `4g`, `8g`. |
| --conf-spark-memory-fraction **value**       | **Advanced**. Fraction of (heap space - 300MB) used for execution and storage (default=`0.6`). Sets `spark.memory.fraction` Spark configuration parameter. See the detailed description [here](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html#memory-management). |


For more information on these options see the official documentation on running Spark on Yarn: 
[https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-yarn.html](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-yarn.html)

The list of all options for running both Standardization and Conformance:

|            Option                     |                           Description                                                                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --menas-auth-keytab **filename**      | A keytab file used for Kerberized authentication to Menas. Cannot be used together with `--menas-credentials-file`.                                                                         |
| --menas-credentials-file **filename** | A credentials file containing a login and a password used to authenticate to Menas. Cannot be used together with `--menas-auth-keytab`.                                                     |
| --dataset-name **name**               | A dataset name to be standardized or conformed.                                                                                                                                             |
| --dataset-version **version**         | A version of a dataset to be standardized or conformed.                                                                                                                                     |
| --report-date **YYYY-mm-dd**          | A date specifying a day for which a raw data is landed.                                                                                                                                     |
| --report-version **version**          | A version of the data for a particular day.                                                                                                                                                 |
| --std-hdfs-path **path**              | A path pattern where to put standardized data. The following tokens are expending in the pattern: `{0}` - dataset name, `{1}` - dataset version, `{2}`- report date, `{3}`- report version. |

The list of additional options available for running Standardization:

|            Option             |                           Description                                                                                           |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --raw-format **format**       | A format for input data. Can be one of `parquet`, `json`, `csv`, `xml`, `cobol`, `fixed-width`.                                 |
| --charset **charset**         | Specifies a charset to use for `csv`, `json` or `xml`. Default is `UTF-8`.                                                      |
| --row-tag **tag**             | A row tag if the input format is `xml`.                                                                                         |
| --header **true/false**       | Indicates if in the input CSV data has headers as the first row of each file.                                                   |
| --delimiter **character**     | Specifies a delimiter character to use for CSV format. By default `,` is used.                                                  |
| --csv-quote **character**     | Specifies a character to be used as a quote for creating fields that might contain delimiter character. By default `"` is used. |
| --csv-escape **character**    | Specifies a character to be used for escaping other characters. By default '&#92;' (backslash) is used.                         |
| --trimValues **true/false**   | Indicates if string fields of fixed with text data should be trimmed.                                                           |
| --is-xcom **true/false**      | If `true` a mainframe input file is expected to have XCOM RDW headers.                                                          |
| --folder-prefix **prefix**    | Adds a folder prefix before the date tokens.                                                                                    |
| --debug-set-raw-path **path** | Override the path of the raw data (used for testing purposes).                                                                  |

The list of additional options available for running Conformance:

|            Option                          |                           Description                                        |
|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --mapping-table-pattern **pattern**        | A pattern to look for mapping table for the specified date.<br>The list of possible substitutions: `{0}` - year, `{1}` - month, `{2}` - day of month. By default the pattern is `reportDate={0}-{1}-{2}`. Special symbols in the pattern need to be escaped. For example, an empty pattern can be be specified as `\'\'` (single quotes are escaped using a backslash character).|
| --experimental-mapping-rule **true/false** | If `true`, the experimental optimized mapping rule implementation is used. The default value is build-specific and is set in 'application.properties'. |
| --catalyst-workaround **true/false**       | Turns on (`true`) or off (`false`) workaround for Catalyst optimizer issue. It is `true` by default. Turn this off only is you encounter timing freeze issues when running Conformance. | 
| --autoclean-std-folder **true/false**      | If `true`, the standardized folder will be cleaned automatically after successful execution of a Conformance job. |

## Plugins

Standardization and Conformance support plugins that allow executing additional actions at certain times of the computation.
To learn how plugins work, when and how their logic is executed, please 
refer to the [documentation](https://absaoss.github.io/enceladus/docs/2.0.0/plugins).

### Built-in Plugins
The purpose of this module is to provide some plugins of additional but relatively elementary functionality. And also to
serve as an example how plugins are written: 
[detailed description](https://absaoss.github.io/enceladus/docs/2.0.0/plugins-built-in)  

## How to contribute
Please see our [**Contribution Guidelines**](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Documentation
Please see the [documentation pages](https://absaoss.github.io/enceladus/).
