---
layout: default
title: 'Release v1.2.0'
tags: ['v1.2.0', 'changelog']
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
As of 20/09 2019 the new version 1.2.0 is out
<!--more-->

## Menas Improvements
- [#220]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/220) Editing old entities is disabled in the UI and the API returns a proper `400` resposne.
- [#625]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/625) HDFS paths are not allowed to be empty or root `/`.
- [#799]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/799) Non-string values in the schema's metadata no longer corrupts the schema entity. Only string values are allowed in the schema's metadata.  
- [#849]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/849) Improved schema upload API so it now returns a more structured and appropriate `400` response if an error has occurred. 
- [#491]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/491) Fixed `TypeError` when session expires.
- [#863]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/863) Fixed front-end logging issue. 

## Standardization Improvements
- [#909]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/909) Allow standardization to process empty datasets. Non-empty datasets which are read incorrectly (e.g., `xml` with a wrong `row tag`) will still fail the run if their source/raw checkpoint says they are supposed to have more than 0 records.

## Conformance Improvements
- [#427]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/427) Drop rule checks for the presence of the column before dropping it and logs a warning if not found.
- [#822]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/822) Nullable fields which fail during `conformance` will have `null` values rather than be assigned a global default.
- [#892]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/892) Mapping rules can now safely join on columns created by a literal rule. (currently just a workaround which will be refined in [#895]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/895))

## Scripts Improvements
- [#893]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/893) Convenience scripts now propagate the spark job's exit code.
- [#898]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/898) Convenience scripts now allow additional arbitrary environment configurations to be specified in `encelauds_env.sh`.
