---
layout: default
title: 'Release v1.1.0'
tags: ['v1.1.0', 'changelog']
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
As of 30/08 2019 the new version 1.1.0 is out
<!--more-->

## Menas Improvements
- [#337]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/337) Validate HDFS Paths for special characters.
- [#446]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/446) Scheduling can now be suspended and resumed. Also allows datasets to be `run once` ability via the UI or REST API.
- [#447]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/447) Continuous migration of data from old Menas to new.
- [#573]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/573) Creating entities with special characters in the name show a more appropriate message.
- [#734]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/734) Monitoring now shows if controls for a `Run` don't match across checkpoints.
- [#772]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/772) Aligned order of inputs in `Drop Rule` with other `Conformance Rules`.
- [#777]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/777) Better error report on failure to upload schema.
- [#793]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/793) Creating a `Schema` with forbidden characters no longer hangs on pressing save.
- [#826]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/826) Environment name is now displayed in the header.

## Standardization Improvements
- [#420]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/420) Nullable columns will no longer be assigned a default when unable to standardize to a particular type. Instead they will be `null`.
- [#797]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/797) Raw format of the standardized dataset is tracked in `_INFO` file and available in the `Run` information in Menas.

## Conformance Improvements
- [#770]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/770) Casting to `Timestamp` now has validation.
- [#773]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/773) `Negation Rule` now applicable to `Boolean` type (not just `Numeric` types).

## Scripts Improvements
- [#672]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/672) Conformance script can automatically clean up the standardized input on finish.
- [#806]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/806) Helper scripts now properly get principal from keytab for service users.
- [#850]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/850) Fixed typo in standardization script name.

## Comparison Job Improvements
- [#835]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/835) Comparison Job can now read in XML.
