---
layout: default
title: 'Release v1.4.0'
tags: ['v1.6.0', 'changelog']
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
As of 29/11 2019 the new version 1.6.0 is out
<!--more-->

## Menas Improvements
- [#92]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/92) Menas authentication is now stateless, using JWT. This allows scalable load-balancing of requests to Menas.
- [#623]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/623) The master pages for `Dataset`, `Schema` and `Mapping Table` now show a busy indicator while they are fetching the list of entities.
- [#890]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/890) Fixed visual bug in conformance rules where the `Mapping Rule` was showing misleading join conditions by displaying the dataset name on both sides of the join. The join conditions are now displayed as `dataset.column - mapping_table.column`.
- [#1053]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1053) To allow `Run Summaries` queries to serve requests with hundreds of thousands of `Runs`, Menas now allows MongoDB to spill to disk when it reaches the 100MB memory limit for sorting queries. Queries like this will be deprecated and replaced with paginated alternative in version 2.0.0.
- [#1070]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1070) Added `runUniqueId` to `Run Summaries` for the following endpoints:
  - `<api_url>/runs/summaries`
  - `<api_url>/runs/<dataset_name>`
  - `<api_url>/runs/<dataset_name>/<dataset_version>`

## Standardization Improvements
- [#58]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/58) You can now parse formatted strings to numeric types. (See the [documentation]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/1.0.0/usage-schema#parsing-numbers) for details)

## Conformance Improvements
- [#1044]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1044) Fixed calculation of the `Conformance - End` checkpoint.

## Other Improvements
- [#602]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/602) Added a test coverage plugin, which can be run with: `mvn scoverage:report`.
- [#937]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/937) `TestUtils` (including the `Dataset Comparison Job`) is now its own project called [Hermes](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/Hermes).   
- [#1041]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1041) The project now has basic `SonarCloud` integration for static code analysis.
