---
layout: default
title: 'Release v1.3.0'
tags: ['v1.3.0', 'changelog']
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
As of 16/10 2019 the new version 1.3.0 is out
<!--more-->

## Menas Improvements
- [#884]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/884) New monitoring endpoints added, including a healthcheck endpoint `.../menas/admin/health` (See [Menas documentation for details]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/1.0.0/menas))
- [#935]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/935) Menas environment name is now displayed in the browser's tab.
- [#945]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/945) REST calls to `Menas` creating `Run` objects now validate that `Dataset` name and version are provided.

## Standardization Improvements
- [#398]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/398) Renaming in `Standardization` (using `sourcecolumn` metadata key) is now more robust:
  * Rename does not run the danger of name clashes with other columns anymore.
  * Danger of `ErrorCol` name clash has been removed.
  * Nested column renames are now registered with ATUM.
  * One column can be a source for multiple standardized columns.
- [#887]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/887) The schema metadata key `allowinfinity` now works for `Float` and `Double`. The possible values for the key are `"true"` and `"false"` (Boolean in String format), when not specified `"false"` is considered default. If set to `"true""` it allows the column to be marked as `infinity/-infinity` for values which are too big.

## Scripts Improvements
- [#899]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/899) Run scripts now allow you to control the storage level of dataframe persistence with the `--persist-storage-level` option. This can help fine-tuning `Standardization` and `Conformance` jobs for specific datasets. (See [README for details]({{ site.github.repository_url }}/blob/develop/README.md#run))
- [#922]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/922) Run scripts now allow further spark tuning with these options: `--executor-cores`, `--conf-spark-executor-memoryOverhead`, `--conf-spark-memory-fraction`. (See [README for details]({{ site.github.repository_url }}/blob/develop/README.md#run))
- [#926]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/926) Command line autocompletion is now available for the `Standradization` and `Conformance` run scripts when the `enceladus_autocompletions.sh` script is sourced along with a `$PATH_TO_SCRIPTS` environment variable.
- [#929]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/929) Added validation to run scripts to ensure authentication credentials are provided.
- [#953]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/953) Handling of environment-specific Spark configurations (`ADDITIONAL_SPARK_CONF`) is now done separately from JVM configurations (`ADDITIONAL_JVM_CONF`) in the `enceladus_env.sh` script.

## Model Migration Improvements
- [#912]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/912) Migration CLI tools now have logging enabled.
- [#920]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/920) Fixed issue with Continuous/Incremental Migration process hanging at the end.
- [#921]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/921), [#931]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/931) Fixed potential memory issues in the migration framework.

## Other Improvements
- [#492]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/492) Rewrote the DAO module to improve maintainability of `Standardization` and `Conformance`'s communication with `Menas`.
- [#914]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/914) Removed selenium module. It did not reflect current projects state.
- [#941]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/941) `Run` metadata is now added at the beginning of a Spark job so if the job fails users have additional information for debugging. This includes additional Spark configuration parameters of the `Run`.
- [#942]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/942) At the end of `Standardization` and `Conformance` jobs, the `Menas` URL (for the API and UI) of the concluded run will now be logged.
- [#968]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/968) `Standardization` and `Conformance` runs now provide additional metadata about the input and output data sizes. These are similar to input and output directory sizes but do not include hidden files (`_INFO`, `_LINEAGE`, etc)
