---
layout: default
title: Release v2.0.0
tags: ["v2.0.0", "changelog"]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

As of 03/02 2020 the new version 2.0.0 is out
<!--more-->

This major release was focused on restructuring the project, its artifacts, and configurations. 
These are not changes that should affect users but are breaking for the people who deploy the project.

## Breaking Changes
- [#64]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/64) Standardization and Conformance are now combined in one artifact - `spark-jobs.jar`. 
This allows using a single JAR file for both jobs. 
The class names for the jobs remain the same. 
*Note:* This change requires updating helper scripts and setting the `SPARK-JOBS-JAR` environment variable in `enceladus_env.sh`.
- [#1090]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1090) All `Enceladus` modules are now under the same `enceladus` group ID in the `absa.co.za` organization. 
They will no longer have the `enceldus-` prefix and will not appear as top-level artifacts in maven.
- [#1099]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1099) `Menas` properties no longer have the `za.co.absa.encealdus.` prefix. 
See the `application.properties.template` fo details in deploying Menas.

## Conformance Improvements
- [#1078]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1078) Preliminary work on an improved broadcast strategy for the mapping conformance rule. 
It can now join fields located at different array levels. 
This mapping rule strategy is planned to be turned on in experimental mode in Enceladus v.3.0.0.
- [#1129]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1129) The broadcasting mapping rule strategy can now be used in experimental mode. 
To do this set `conformance.mapping.rule.broadcast=auto` as the option to run dynamic conformance. 
The `conformance.mapping.rule.max.broadcast.size.mb` option specifies the maximum mapping table size that is allowed to be broadcast.
- [#1136]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1136) Nested array transformations API were extracted into a separate project: [spark-hats](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/spark-hats).
- [#1159]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1159) Fixed the broadcasting mapping rule dropping of standardization errors when trying to conform a null array.

## Standardization Improvements
- [#1101]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1101) Added support for metadata in arrays of simple types (e.g. `pattern` can be specified for array of timestamps).

## Menas Improvements
- [#1118]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1118) Update `Spring Boot` to version `2.2.2`.
- [#1151]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1151) Fixed issue with selecting the `Runs` tile on the landing page not loading the `Runs` in the navigation.
- [#1154]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1154) Merge of Standardization and Conformance is not reflected in Oozie.
- [#1167]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1167) Fixed bug where interrupted `Runs` in the database cause failure to query `RunSummaries`.

## Other changes
- [#1145]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1145) Removed external modules `fixed-width` and `kafka`.
- [#1147]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1147) Set Copyright year to year of inception.

