---
layout: default
title: Release v2.6.0
tags: ["v2.6.0", "changelog"]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

As of 29/05 2020 the new version 2.6.0 is out
<!--more-->

## Standardization Improvements

- [#1319]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1319) CSV input parameters (delimiter, quote and escape) can be specified as unicode such as: `U+00A1`, `u00a1` or `0161`. Additionally, for specifying `""`(empty string), meaning for example no escape, no quote, the keyword `none` can be used now.
- [#1353]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1353) Added support for loading ASCII fixed-width files using `cobol` as raw data format.

## Standardization & Conformance Improvements

- [#1220]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1220) Sending errors to a **Kafka** topic can now be used enabling built-in [plugins]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/2.0.0/plugins-built-in#kafkaerrorsenderplugin).

## Menas Improvements

- [#1250]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1250) "Schema load from URL" - URL validation added - supports localhost, domain names, IP v4 and v6.
- [#1234]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1234) AVSC typed schema can be exported as same other types.

## Menas Fixes

- [#1347]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1347) Each time a schema gets updated by uploading/remote-loading a new schema-file, the attachment is filed under the correct (same) version.
- [#1347]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1347) MongoDb remapping script added to [1347-attachment-version-off-by-one-mapping-script.js](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/enceladus/blob/master/scripts/mongo/1347-attachment-version-off-by-one-mapping-script.js)

## Streaming Improvements

- [#1333]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1333) Added an ability to specify information data source for streaming conformance jobs. It can be either an event time column, processing time, or a constant value.

## Helper scripts Improvements

- [#670]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/670) Overpartitioning (too many tiny files) of output data is resolved by configuring Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) and adaptive execution.
- [#1098]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1098) Possible to sett DRA as a default for **Enceladus** jobs. DRA scales resource allocation to the actual size of the job (input size). Compared to fixed allocation, this makes a) small jobs more resource efficient b) large jobs faster. It reduces the effort for resource configuration on per case basis. 

How to enable DRA see the [How to run]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/2.0.0/usage/run#helper-scripts) documentation page, 
chapter _Helper scripts_.
