---
layout: default
title: Release v2.24.0
tags: ["v2.24.0", "changelog"]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

As of 18/09 2021 the new version 2.24.0 is out
<!--more-->

## Standardization Improvements

- [#1887]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1887) Default time zone used during _Standardization_ can now be overridden/configured for each raw format type. The configuration name is then [`standardization.defaultTimestampTimeZone.[format]`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/config) and takes precedence over the global setting of [`standardization.defaultTimestampTimeZone.default`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/config). (`defaultTimestampTimeZone` was made obsolete, but still supported as a fallback)
- [#172]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/172) The applied default time zones are written into _INFO file.

## Standardization and Conformance Improvements

- [#172]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/172) Upgrade of [Atum](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/atum) to version 3.6 and [Absa Commons](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/commons) to 0.0.27.
- [#1894]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1894) Enceladus can write Spline's `_LINEAGE` file in an S3 location.

## Menas Improvements

- [#1843]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1843) Added _Properties_ button on home page that leads to side panel with list of all properties. It's possible to display information of each property including a clickable list of datasets that don't have the property defined.
- [#1903]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1903) Added function to allow importing of mapping tables with complex default values with more levels.
- [#1909]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1909) Increased limit of columns shown in the selector for _Coalesce_ and _Concatenation conformance rules_ to 5000. This should fit most needs.

## HyperConformance Plugin Improvements  

- [#1881]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1881) New way of having HyperConformance `info_version_column` from an existing dataframe column by specifying `report.version.column`

## New _Standardization_ configurations

* [`standardization.defaultTimestampTimeZone.default`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/config) (replaces obsolete `defaultTimestampTimeZone`)
* [`standardization.defaultTimestampTimeZone.[format]`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/config)


## Obsolete _Standardization_ configurations

* `defaultTimestampTimeZone`
