---
layout: default
title: Release v2.25.0
tags: ["v2.25.0", "changelog"]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

As of 24/10 2021 the new version 2.25.0 is out
<!--more-->

## Standardization

- [#1882]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1882) Updated Cobrix to 2.4.1 to use the latest mainframe file processing features.


## Standardization and Conformance Improvements

- [#1869]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1869) It's now possible to set the retry count of Menas API URLs. It's also possible to choose the strategy to define the order in which they are used (`fallback`: sequentially start-to-end; `roundrobin`: random starting URL from the list, sequentially from there on).
- [#1927]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1927) HDFS permissions for Atum's `_INFO` and Spline's `_LINEAGE` were set to 644. These are also configurable via `atum.hdfs.info.file.permissions` and `spline.hdfs.file.permissions`, respectively.
- [#1937]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1937) Added parameters `min.processing.partition.size` and `max.processing.partition.size` to adjust the eventual size of the output files. The specified value is in bytes and it corresponds to the partition size during execution, not the output file size

## Menas Improvements

- [#1863]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1863), [#1864]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1864), [#1865]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1865), [#1866]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1866) Mapping table UI and MappingConformance UI now show mapping filters set and offer controls to edit these filters, too.

## Helper Scripts Improvements

- [#1926]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1926) Adds ability to specify additional java opts for executor through enceladus_env file. Also to the env file, we added the example for krb5.conf and truststore.
- [#1931]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1931) Add a switch to turn on or off the running of the kinit in client mode from helper scripts.
- [#1951]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1951) Windows _Helper scripts_ brought en-par with the shell ones (once again).

## New Standardization and Conformance Configuration

* [`atum.hdfs.info.file.permissions`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/config)
* [`min.processing.partition.size`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/config)[^1]
* [`max.processing.partition.size`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/config)[^1]
* [`menas.rest.retryCount`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/config)
* [`menas.rest.availability.setup`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/config)

## New Helper Scripts Configuration

* `DEFAULT_CLIENT_MODE_RUN_KINIT`
* `KRB5_CONF_CLIENT`
* `KRB5_CONF_CLUSTER`
* `TRUST_STORE_CLIENT`
* `TRUST_STORE_CLUSTER`
* `TRUST_STORE_PASSWORD`
* `ADDITIONAL_JVM_EXECUTOR_CONF_CLIENT`
* `ADDITIONAL_JVM_EXECUTOR_CONF_CLUSTER`

## New Helper Scripts Runtime Options

* `--min-processing-partition-size NUM` - Minimum number of bytes for each partition, used for limiting the output partition size"[^1]
* `--max-processing-partition-size NUM` - Maximum number of bytes for each partition, used for limiting the output partition size"[^1]

## Notes
[^1]: Experimental - sizes might still not meet the requested limits
