---
layout: default
title: Release v2.21.0
tags: ["v2.21.0", "changelog"]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

As of 13/03 2021 the new version 2.21.0 is out
<!--more-->

## Standardization and Conformance Improvements

- [#1352]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1352) Error messages publishing now works with SSL-secured Kafka topics. Refer to the [`spark-jobs`' `reference.conf`](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/enceladus/blob/master/spark-jobs/src/main/resources/reference.conf) on how to set it up.

## Menas Improvements

- [#1694]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1694) Mapping conformance rule supports up to 10 join conditions.
- [#1669]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1669) Proper implementation of admin role for accessing certain API endpoints  
  - Added configuration property [`menas.auth.admin.role`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/menas-config#menas.auth.admin.role) to specify the admin role to operate property definition create and update operations. 
  - JWT now holding roles/authorities.
  - Added the ability to filter the roles that are going to be used in JWT - filtering based on regex, property [`menas.auth.roles.regex`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/menas-config#menas.auth.roles.regex).

## Helper scripts Improvements

- [#1718]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1718) Keytab authentication now supported by Windows Helper Scripts too. General better keytab logging in Helper Scripts (`klist -e`).

## General Project Improvements

- [#1684]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1684) Scrips for releasing Enceladus project.
- [#1707]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1707) Project Enceladus is now built without any warnings. (No deprecated code calls, no advanced language features). Project has been set to fail on compilation in case of any such warnings.

## New Menas Configuration Option

* [`menas.auth.admin.role`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/menas-config#menas.auth.admin.role)
* [`menas.auth.roles.regex`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/menas-config#menas.auth.roles.regex) 

## Removed Menas Configuration Option

* `menas.feature.property.definitions.allowUpdate` - property designed as temporary from start, not used anymore.
